# Restart Policy

The restart policy is a setting that specifies how a container should be restarted if it exits or fails. When you create a Kubernetes pod, you can specify the restart policy for each container in the pod using the **`restartPolicy`** field in the pod's YAML configuration file.

There are three possible values for the **`restartPolicy`** field:

1. **`Always`**: This is the default value. If the container exits for any reason, Kubernetes will automatically restart it. This is useful for long-running applications that are expected to run continuously.
2. **`OnFailure`**: If the container exits with a non-zero exit code, Kubernetes will automatically restart it. This is useful for batch jobs or other short-lived tasks that may fail occasionally.
3. **`Never`**: If the container exits for any reason, Kubernetes will not attempt to restart it. This is useful for containers that are expected to run once and then terminate, such as one-time initialization tasks.

By setting the restart policy appropriately, you can ensure that your containerized applications run reliably and can recover from failures automatically.

Note: An "exit code" is a numeric value returned by a program when it finishes running. When a program finishes running, it can return an exit code to the operating system, indicating whether the program completed successfully or encountered an error or issue.

In Kubernetes, If the exit code is 0, it indicates that the container exited successfully. If the exit code is non-zero (i.e., any value other than 0), it indicates that the container encountered an error or issue and exited with an error.

Use Case:

1. **`Always`**: This policy is useful for long-running services or applications that need to be available at all times. For example, you might use **`Always`** for a web server that serves traffic to your customers. If the web server process crashes or stops for any reason, Kubernetes will automatically restart the container to ensure that the service remains available. It is useful when you need to ensure that a container is always running, even in the event of a successful or unsuccessful exit. However, it can lead to unnecessary restarts and increased resource usage if your container frequently exits successfully.
2. **`OnFailure`**: This policy is useful for batch jobs or other short-lived tasks that may fail occasionally. For example, you might use **`OnFailure`** for a container that runs a data processing job that needs to run periodically. If the job fails due to a data input issue, for instance, Kubernetes will automatically restart the container and the job will run again.
3. **`Never`**: This policy is useful for containers that are designed to run once and then exit. For example, you might use **`Never`** for a container that runs a database migration task, where the task only needs to be run once when you deploy a new version of your application. Once the task is complete, the container can exit and Kubernetes will not attempt to restart it.

“Always” Example Yaml file:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: web-server-pod
spec:
  containers:
  - name: web-server-container
    image: your-web-server-image:latest
    restartPolicy: Always
```

“OnFailure” Example Yaml file:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: batch-job-pod
spec:
  containers:
  - name: batch-job-container
    image: your-batch-job-image
    restartPolicy: OnFailure
```